In developing a digital twin for the Siberian Ring Source of Photons, the
findings from the article by Pukhovoy et al.become particularly relevant. The
study's focus on optimizing diamond foil thickness for thermal management in
synchrotron beams can be instrumental in creating a virtual model that
accurately simulates the thermal behaviors and stress responses of the diamond
window in the Siberian Ring Source \cite{pukhovoy2023numerical}. This digital twin
can aid in predicting performance, optimizing design, and enhancing operational
safety and efficiency, leveraging the insights gained from the detailed
numerical simulations presented in the article.

The article "Features of Device Cooling in Wiggler Synchrotron Workstations"
addresses the unique cooling challenges in synchrotron radiation (SR)
workstations, particularly in high-vacuum environments with high energy beam
densities. It emphasizes the importance of efficient cooling systems for
optical elements, discussing various methods, including mini-channel cooling,
and providing detailed examples of thermal management in specific workstation
devices. The research includes computational simulations for understanding the
thermal behavior of devices like diamond filters under intense heat fluxes,
crucial for ensuring the reliability and effectiveness of the cooling systems.
This study's insights are particularly relevant for developing a digital twin
of the Siberian Ring Source of Photons' diamond window, as it offers
comprehensive data on cooling techniques and thermal management strategies in
challenging synchrotron environments \cite{KabovDiamondWindow}.
